Revamped Gateway on Kubernetes install guide (#6695)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_src/gateway/install/kubernetes/portal.md

---
title: Kong Developer Portal
book: kubernetes-install
chapter: 5
---

> This guide shows how to deploy Kong Developer Portal, which is a self-hosted portal that ships as part of [[{{ site.ee_product_name  }}]]. For new developer portal deployments, we recommend using the <a href="https://konghq.com/products/kong-konnect/register?utm_medium=referral&utm_source=docs&utm_campaign=gateway-konnect&utm_content=kubernetes-install">{{ site.konnect_saas }} developer portal</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide shows how to deploy the Kong Developer Portal, a self-hosted portal that comes with {{ site.ee_product_name  }}. For new developer portal deployments, we recommend using the <a href="https://konghq.com/products/kong-konnect/register?utm_medium=referral&utm_source=docs&utm_campaign=gateway-konnect&utm_content=kubernetes-install">{{ site.konnect_saas }} developer portal</a>.
```

## Prerequisites

* [{{ site.base_gateway }} installed](/gateway/{{ page.release }}/install/kubernetes/proxy/)
* Kong's Admin API is accessible over HTTP from your local machine

## Installation

> Kong Developer portal is deployed as part of the `kong-cp` deployment as it needs access to the database for the Portal API to manage API specifications and content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kong Developer Portal is deployed as part of the `kong-cp` deployment as it needs access to the database for the Portal API to manage API specifications and content.
```

> 1. Update the `values-cp.yaml` file to enable Dev Portal, merging the following values in to your existing `values-cp.yaml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Update the `values-cp.yaml` file to enable Dev Portal by merging the following values into your existing `values-cp.yaml` file.
```

    ```yaml
    env:
      # Portal configuration
      # CHANGE THESE VALUES
      portal_gui_protocol: http
      portal_gui_host: portal.example.com
      portal_api_url: http://portalapi.example.com
      portal_session_conf: '{"cookie_name": "portal_session", "secret": "PORTAL_SUPER_SECRET", "storage": "kong", "cookie_secure": false, "cookie_domain":".example.com"}'
    
    # Enable Developer Portal
    enterprise:
      portal:
        enabled: true
    ```

1. Update the portal hostname values in `values-cp.yaml`.

>     - `env.portal_gui_protocol`: The protocol to use for the GUI (http or https)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `env.portal_gui_protocol`: The protocol to use for the GUI, either HTTP or HTTPS
```

>     - `env.portal_gui_host`: The hostname that you'll use to reach the portal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `env.portal_gui_host`: The hostname that you'll use to access the portal
```

>     - `env.portal_api_url`: The publicly accessible API URL for dev portal data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `env.portal_api_url`: The publicly accessible API URL for Dev Portal data
```

    - `env.portal_session_conf`: Update the value in `secret` and `cookie_domain`

{% include md/k8s/ingress-setup.md service="portal" release="cp" type="public" skip_release=true skip_ingress_controller_install=true skip_dns=true %}

{% include md/k8s/ingress-setup.md service="portalapi" release="cp" type="public" skip_ingress_controller_install=true skip_dns=true %}

1. Fetch the `Ingress` IP address and update your DNS records to point at the Ingress address. You can configure DNS manually, or use a tool such as [external-dns](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/external-dns) to automate DNS configuration.

    Both `portal` and `portalapi` are accessible using the same `LoadBalancer`. Use the endpoint returned by the following command to configure both `portal.example.com` and `portalapi.example.com`.

    ```bash
    kubectl get ingress -n kong kong-cp-kong-portal -o jsonpath='{range .status.loadBalancer.ingress[0]}{@.ip}{@.hostname}{end}'
    ```

## Enable the Dev Portal

> The Kong Developer Portal is not enabled by default in a new {{ site.base_gateway }} installation. Use the Admin API to enable the portal. Ensure you change the domain and `Kong-Admin-Token` values to match your installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kong Developer Portal is not enabled by default in a new {{ site.base_gateway }} installation. Use the Admin API to enable the portal. Make sure to change the domain, and `Kong-Admin-Token` values to match your installation.
```
